# Stanford University Courses
Courses can be searched, verified, and checked at https://explorecourses.stanford.edu

## ME 127: Additive Manufacturing
Design for Additive Manufacturing (DfAM) combines the fields of Design for Manufacturability (DfM) and Additive Manufacturing (AM). ME127 will introduce the capabilities and limitations of various AM technologies and apply the principles of DfM in order to design models fit for printing. Students will use Computer Aided Design (CAD) software to create and analyze models and then print them using machines and resources in the Product Realization Lab. Topics include: design for rapid prototyping, material selection, post-processing and finishing, CAD simulation, algorithmic modeling, additive tooling and fixtures, and additive manufacturing at scale. 
## ME 128: Computer Aided Prduct Realization
Students will continue to build understanding of Product Realization processes and techniques concentrating on Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machines, materials, tools, and workholding. Students will gain an understanding of CNC in modern manufacturing and alternative methods and tools used in industry.
## ME 129: Manufacturing Process and Design
ME129 is designed for Juniors in Mechanical Engineering who have elected the Product Realization concentration. Students will develop professional level knowledge and experience with materials and manufacturing processes. Activities will include lectures, site visits to local manufacturing organizations, and recorded site visits to global manufacturing organizations. Assignments will include essays and discussions based on site visits, materials exploration including hands-on activities in the Product Realization Lab (PRL), and product tear downs supported by PRL resources. The environmental sustainability consequences of materials and transformation process choices will be a unifying thread running throughout the course. 
## ENGR 240: Introduction to Micro and Nano Electromechanical Systems
Miniaturization technologies now have important roles in materials, mechanical, and biomedical engineering practice, in addition to being the foundation for information technology. This course will target an audience of first-year engineering graduate students and motivated senior-level undergraduates, with the goal of providing an introduction to M/NEMS fabrication techniques, selected device applications, and the design tradeoffs in developing systems. 
## ME 102: Foundations of Product Realization
Students develop the language and toolset to transform design concepts into tangible models/prototypes that cultivate the emergence of mechanical aptitude. Visual communication tools such as sketching, orthographic projection, and 2D/3D design software are introduced in the context of design and prototyping assignments. Instruction and practice with hand, powered, and digital prototyping tools in the Product Realization Lab support students implementation and iteration of physical project work. Project documentation, reflection, and in-class presentations are opportunities for students to find their design voice and practice sharing it with others. 
## ME 103: Product Realization 
ME103 is designed for sophomores or juniors in mechanical engineering or product design. During the course students will develop a point of view around a product or object of their own design that is meaningful to them in some way. Students will evolve their ideas through a series of prototypes of increasing fidelity ¿ storyboards, sketches, CAD models, rough prototypes, 3D printed models, etc. The final project will be a high-fidelity product or object made with the PRL's manufacturing resources, giving students a sound foundation in fabrication processes, design guidelines, tolerancing, and material choices. 
## ME 104: Mechanical Systems Design
How to design mechanical systems through iterative application of intuition, brainstorming, analysis, computation and prototype testing. Design of custom mechanical components, selection of common machine elements, and selection of electric motors and transmission elements to meet performance, efficiency and reliability goals. Emphasis on high-performance systems. Independent and team-based design projects. 
## ME 161: Dynamic Systems and Controls
Modeling, analysis, and measurement of mechanical and electromechanical dynamic systems. Closed form solutions of ordinary differential equations governing the behavior of single and multiple-degree-of-freedom systems. Stability, forcing, resonance, and control system design. 
